CERN Open Hardware Licence Version 2 - Strongly Reciprocal

Preamble

CERN has developed this licence to promote collaboration among hardware
designers and to provide a legal tool which supports the freedom to use,
study, modify, share and distribute hardware designs and products based on
those designs. The CERN Open Hardware Licence (OHL) is a tool to support
collaboration and knowledge sharing in the hardware design community.

The CERN-OHL is to hardware what the General Public Licence (GPL) is to
software. It is intended to guarantee that you have the freedom to use,
study, modify, share and distribute hardware designs and products, and
that you must share your modifications under the same licence.

1 Definitions

1.1 'Licence' means this CERN Open Hardware Licence, being Version 2 or a
subsequent version published by CERN.

1.2 'Compatible Licence' means any licence approved by CERN as compatible
with this Licence.

1.3 'Source' means all the information necessary to make, modify or
reconstruct a Product, including but not limited to:
(a) hardware design files such as HDL source code, schematic diagrams,
    PCB layout files, mechanical CAD files and manufacturing files;
(b) documentation describing the design, its operation or manufacture;
(c) test benches, test vectors and validation reports;
(d) software which is embedded in the hardware;
(e) any other information that the Licensor considers necessary.

1.4 'Product' means any device, equipment or other tangible object whose
design is licensed under this Licence.

1.5 'You' means any natural or legal person exercising rights under this
Licence.

1.6 'Licensor' means any natural or legal person that creates or
contributes to the creation of a Source and distributes it under this
Licence.

1.7 'Contribution' means any work of authorship, including the original
version of the Source and any modifications or additions to that Source
or to previous Contributions, which is intentionally submitted to the
Licensor for inclusion in the Source by the copyright owner or by an
individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright
owner.

1.8 'CERN' means the European Organization for Nuclear Research.

2 Grant of Licence

2.1 Copyright Licence

The Licensor grants You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge,
royalty-free, irrevocable copyright licence to use, reproduce, modify,
distribute, perform, display, and otherwise exploit the Source, and to
sublicense these rights to others, under the terms of this Licence.

2.2 Patent Licence

Each Contributor hereby grants You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive,
no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable patent licence to make, have made,
use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Product,
where such licence applies only to those patent claims licensable by such
Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone
or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Source to which such
Contribution(s) was submitted.

3 Distribution of Source

3.1 You may distribute copies of the Source in any medium, provided that
You:
(a) keep intact all copyright and licence notices;
(b) provide a copy of this Licence with the Source;
(c) clearly mark any modifications You make to the Source;
(d) provide the Source in a form that is convenient for modification
    and manufacture.

3.2 You may distribute copies of modified versions of the Source under
the terms of Section 3.1, provided that You:
(a) clearly mark the modifications You have made;
(b) license the modifications under this Licence or a Compatible Licence;
(c) provide the date of the modifications;
(d) make available the corresponding Source of the modifications.

4 Distribution of Products

4.1 You may manufacture and distribute Products based on the Source or
modified versions thereof, provided that You:
(a) accompany each Product with a copy of this Licence or a Compatible
    Licence;
(b) make available the corresponding Source of the Product;
(c) clearly mark any modifications You have made to the Product;
(d) provide the date of the modifications.

4.2 The Source corresponding to a Product must be available for as long
as You distribute the Product.

5 Notices

5.1 You must retain all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution
notices from the Source.

5.2 If You distribute modified versions of the Source or Products based
thereon, You must include a prominent notice stating that You have
modified the Source or Product.

5.3 You may not use the names, trademarks, service marks, or logos of the
Licensor to endorse or promote products derived from this Source without
specific prior written permission.

6 Warranty and Liability

6.1 THE SOURCE AND PRODUCTS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOURCE
OR PRODUCTS OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOURCE OR PRODUCTS.

7 Termination

7.1 This Licence and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
automatically upon any breach by You of the terms of this Licence.

7.2 If You institute patent litigation against anyone alleging that the
Source or a Contribution constitutes direct or contributory patent
infringement, then any patent licences granted to You under this Licence
for that Source shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

8 Miscellaneous

8.1 This Licence does not grant permission to use the trade names,
trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor.

8.2 If any provision of this Licence is held to be unenforceable, such
provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it
enforceable.

8.3 No term of this Licence shall be deemed waived and no breach
consented to unless such waiver or consent is in writing.

8.4 This Licence constitutes the entire agreement between the parties
with respect to the Source licensed here.

---

This license applies to all hardware designs in this repository, including
but not limited to:
- 3D printed parts (SCAD files, STL files)
- PCB designs and layouts
- Mechanical designs and CAD files
- Assembly instructions and manufacturing documentation
- Bill of Materials (BOM)
- Optical component specifications and mounting designs

For software code, see LICENSE.
For documentation and research papers, see LICENSE-CC-BY-4.0.
